this is the recipe for tea making some
masala chai Indian style masala chai so
we're going to make tea today for two
people so we're going to add two cups of
water from this cup right here it's a
pretty small cup but it's perfect for
the evening cup of tea I put those the
vessel with the two cups of water on a
burner and the setting is on high all
right yeah it's on high setting and now
we begin to add our ingredients so some
pepper freshly ground pepper is going in
you can see my father in love doing this
in expert fashion and typically in
Indian chai typically Indian chai you
don't see pepper but this is what you'd
call masala chai so we are going to get
a few few spices in there and it's
really good for like a cold winter day
you know when the temperatures really
drop
so that's pepper in there and then we
have sugar brown sugar
actually this is jaggery so this is
powder jaggery I got some jaggery from
Indian store and I powdered it much more
healthy than brown sugar in fact so two
spoons of that this is of course
according to taste you can put in some
or none at all or one spoon for two
people it's entirely up to you that goes
in there then we have the tea powder
this is some good again this is
available Indians Indian tea grown in
the hills of Assam probably so this is
awesome tea so this is going in into the
tea go ahead and so that's one spoon
right there and then another spoon okay
so that's two spoons for two cups of tea
okay so now we are going to put in some
cloves right there okay awesome so
that's about five clothes actually for
two cups so this is going to be pretty
pretty strong actually but I tell you
it's it's really good so now we are
going to also shred some grated ginger
we're going to put some grated ginger
into the tea as you can see all of these
items that we are putting in actually
are sort of a heating up what you would
call in from in Ayurvedic terms the
Indian style of medicine
all of these are heat producing
ingredients and herbs in fact herbs and
spices so this is perfect for a winter
day
I wouldn't recommend masala chai for a
summer day at all you would kind of do a
different formula then as the tea is
getting heated up you take about 3/4 of
a glass of milk this is whole milk ok so
now you can see the chai is getting
heated up here it's in fact coming to a
boil pretty close to the point where we
want to actually add the milk so now we
are going to add the milk in yes go
ahead so we are adding the milk in now
now we have got along again the setting
the temperature setting continues to be
the same so you just allow it to now the
milk too cannot come to room temperature
and boil as well I mean the milk came
out of the refrigerator so it's going to
take a few minutes to come to boil so as
you can see now it's coming to a boil so
now this is pretty much ready you're
going to turn it off now yes the burner
is turned off we just allow it for about
I don't know 10 seconds for it to be on
and we take it off pretty much we just
allow it to simmer for just a little bit
now this is kind of this depends on your
taste now the longer you keep it on the
burner the more sort of the tea soaks in
into the into the into the liquid and it
makes it stronger so remember you know
tea is much less acidic than coffee
actually so it's it's just much easier
on the stomach but the longer you keep
it the little more acidic sort of
quality takes on but it also makes it
actually very tasty so even milk when
you kind of boil it for a little longer
takes on a slightly different taste and
quality compared to when it's not cooked
very well so it's kind of based on
individual preference is something that
you learn after you you know make the
tea for a few times this is pretty much
ready so as you can see we turned off
the burner and so now it's kind of
things are cooling down a little bit the
other thing is you know as you boil it
what happens is the the water evaporates
so it kind of makes the milk the tea
thicker so which I personally like so
now we are ready to filter the tea
it's going into the tea cup now as you
can see so this is just this steel
filter for making sure that the liquid
and the ginger etc doesn't get into the
the cups so there you have it so this
kind of actually this tea will actually
work for three people because you know
there's the water and the milk so this
is pretty much for three people rather
than to enjoy